In this lecture, we are going to begin working on a form for modifying social media links.
Before we do, we must track the active selection for a link.
WordPress keeps track of an active selection for blocks.
However, it does not track specific elements.
We must replicate this feature for links, otherwise we don't know what social media link to modify.
Luckily, it's easy to keep track of this information.
We can use the state to track an active link.
Let's get started in your editor.
Open the edit JS file.
Next before the return statement.
Call the U.S state function with a null value.
Initially, none of the links are active.
We are going to hide the form from the user until they've selected a link.
Next, let's store the states values in two variables called active social link and set active social
link.
After storing this information, we can begin updating our template to use this state.
First, let's listen to an event on the social media links.
If a user clicks on a link, we should set the current state to the index of the link clicked.
Scroll to the loop for the links on the anchor element.
Add the on click event.
Passing an arrow function that accepts the event argument.
Before doing anything.
Let's call the event dot prevent default function to prevent the default behavior of clicking on a link.
Next, let's call the set active social link function to update the state.
The value will be the following code.
Active social link equals equals equals index question mark null colon index.
We are using a ternary operator to set the value.
The form should be tolerable.
Clients may not want to see the form after modifying the link.
They can click on a link for the form to appear.
If they click on the same link again, the form should be hidden.
In this example, we are checking the current state of the variable by comparing it to the current index.
If these values are equal, the state will be set to null, thus causing the form to be hidden.
Otherwise, the state will be set to the current index.
By setting it to the current index will know exactly which link the user wants to modify after adding
this event.
Let's apply a class to the link.
The user may forget which link they're modifying.
I've created a class to highlight the icon.
You can find this class from the CSS file after the event.
Add the class name attributes.
The value for this attribute will be the following active social link equals equals equals index and
is selected is active.
We are performing two conditions.
Firstly, we're checking if the link is selected by comparing the state with the index.
Secondly, we're checking if the block is selected in the Gutenberg Editor.
If the user is not modifying the current block, the link should not be highlighted.
If both conditions are true, Kathy, we're applying a class called is active.
Otherwise the class will be an empty string.
The next step is to set the active link to newly added links.
If clients add a new link to a team member, they may want to modify the link.
We should set the state to the new link.
Scroll to the plus button on the anchor element.
Let's modify the function for the on click event at the bottom of the function.
Call the set active social link with the social handles dot length property.
Items added to the array will always appear at the end of the array.
We can safely assume the last item in the array is the new line.
Therefore, the length property will point to the last item in the array.
The state is ready.
The last step is to render a form below the div tag with the social links class.
Add an expression.
The expression will be the following is selected and active social link exclamation point equals equals
null and.
We have two conditions.
The first condition, we'll check the block selection status.
If the lock is not selected, the form should be hidden.
The second condition will check the active social link state for a non null value.
If the state has a valid value, we can display the form after passing both conditions.
Let's render a div tag with a class called team member social edit container.
The styles for this class can be found in the CSS files for this block.
Feel free to check out these styles.
We're finished with tracking the active selection.
Let's try checking our work in the browser.
Refresh the page.
Add the team members group block.
Next, try clicking on the links.
As you do so a grey box will appear below the links.
At the moment we do not have input fields for modifying the link.
That's perfectly fine.
In the next lecture we will add input fields for each link.
As long as a box appears, you're good to go.
You can click on the same link for the box to disappear.
If you add a new link, the new link will become active.
Everything is behaving perfectly.
Let's begin adding input fields.
I'll see you in the next lecture.